Our focus in the Watchtower study article is on how we can unleash the power of God's word when teaching from the platform.
But you know whether we're teaching in a congregation setting on a Bible study or in the family, isn't it true that all of us, brothers and sisters, need to pay constant attention to ourselves and to our teaching?
And we know why that's so important because lives are at stake, and all of us, younger or older, touch the lives of other people.
So when we teach effectively, we are giving opportunity to others to detain the wisdom and the discernment that God's word can give them.
That's why we need to approach any teaching opportunity seriously and prayerfully.
You know, over 20 years ago, a kind elder gave me some constructive counsel after a public talk, and then with a warm smile, he said this,
remember, none of us teach like Jesus did.
Well, I'll never forget that counsel. Why were those observations so helpful?
Well, it reminded me that when teaching our model needs to be Jesus, the great teacher, there's more to learn from him.
And Jesus example reminds us of the need to remain humble and diligent students of Jehovah, the grand instructor.
Though all of us are teachers on occasion, isn't it true that most often the role we play during spiritual programs is that of students?
Just for a moment, think about the many hours we spend as students, not teachers, when we're in the audience at congregation meetings, at assemblies and conventions.
Add to that the time we are students when we buy out time to watch the monthly broadcast, to prepare for meetings, to engage in family and personal study.
And then think of the added privilege that many of us here have to enjoy morning worship five days a week.
You know, a typical program of morning worship lasts between 20 to 25 minutes.
If you multiply that by five days a week and then by 52 weeks, at a minimum, we are exposed to at least 86 hours of divine instruction each year.
But if we're not careful, some or much of that valuable instruction, encouragement and counsel could just wash over us.
So for the remaining time for our program this morning, let's consider some things all of us can do to listen more effectively at spiritual programs.
Please, for our first point, open your Bible to Ezra chapter 7 and verse 10.
And let's consider Ezra's example.
Let's Ezra chapter 7 and verse 10.
And notice the reading carefully.
Ezra had prepared his heart to consult the law of Jehovah and to practice it and to teach its regulations and judgments in Israel.
Now, if you have the Bible with the asterisk next to prepared his heart, if you tap on that, you'll notice that that could be rendered as had determined in his heart.
Well, what do we learn from Ezra?
He had the right attitude going in to a period of study.
He had the right approach to study and learning.
He recognized that it was Jehovah who would be teaching him through his law.
And as the verse goes on to say, he first recognized that he needed to personally practice what he was learning.
Only then would he be in a rightful position to effectively teach others.
Well, this scripture emphasizes the point we've already made, doesn't it?
Though we are teachers on occasion, we are always first and foremost students of God's Word.
How can we imitate Ezra's example and prepare our hearts before study, before attending a spiritual program, whether here at Bethel or in the congregation, before watching a monthly broadcast?
Well, we need to prepare our hearts by specifically praying to Jehovah recognizing him as the source of the teaching.
What should we pray specifically about?
Well, for one, we want to pray that we remain humble while listening to theocratic instruction.
We need to listen no matter how long we've been in Jehovah's classroom, because none of us knows it all, nor will we ever know it all.
Proverbs chapter 1 and verse 5 reminds us that a wise person listens and takes in more instruction.
This leads to another question.
What if we find we have a somewhat negative attitude toward a certain presentation, perhaps the material doesn't interest us?
Or we have a negative attitude toward a certain brother and his teaching ability?
What should we do?
Prepare our heart.
Pray to Jehovah to recognize and appreciate that the instruction is from him.
Pray to have a thankful spirit.
You know, back in 2002, the watchtower made this helpful point in an article that was entitled, pay more than the usual attention, I quote.
Some may tend to gauge the quality of a meeting by the teaching abilities of the participants.
Though the teaching ability of participants is important, it is not the soul factor contributing to a meeting's success.
Do you not agree that our prime concern should be not how well the speaker delivers his talk, but how well we incline our ear?
When we attend meetings, the article continues, and pay attention to what is being presented, we are worshiping God in harmony with his will.
That is what makes the meeting a success.
If we are eager to take in the knowledge of God, we will benefit from meetings regardless of a speaker's abilities.
What a beautiful reminder for all of us.
So our first point, like Ezra, let's prepare our hearts with prayer as students who are determined to always accept and apply what Jehovah has to teach us.
Let's consider a second point.
The need to focus our attention.
Have you faced the challenge of staying focused during spiritual programs?
Our minds may be distracted with anxieties and many other things.
Noise and movements around us could distract us.
If we are watching morning worship at a location other than the Bethel dining room, likely we well know the numerous distractions that fight for our attention.
Some of us have ailments and physical discomforts that may make it difficult to concentrate.
Recently, a sister in our congregation told us about her long-term battle with migraine headaches.
I tried to put myself in her shoes having a migraine headache while attending a spiritual program.
Difficult to concentrate.
Well, whatever the case may be, we know we admit that there are many challenges and distractions.
What can we do about it?
Well, since the eyes strongly influence where we focus our attention, the benefit book provides this suggestion.
Use your eyes to help you concentrate by keeping them on the speaker.
When he cites a Bible text, even a familiar one, look it up and follow along as he reads it.
And then it said this, resist the temptation to turn your head in the direction of every noise or movement.
If the eyes are flooding your mind with distracting information, you will miss much of what is presented from the platform.
And think about two now, the use of electronic devices.
Have you ever been alerted, messaged, or emailed while looking at the Bible on your device?
How wise it is when we turn those devices into a mode that eliminates unnecessary distractions.
What about anxieties or disquieting thoughts?
What could we do about that?
Well, here, again, is where we're remembering who the grand instructor is and how close he can be to us when we're in a teaching environment.
Open, please, your Bible to Psalm 94 and 19.
To recall what the psalmist said to Jehovah.
Psalm 94 and verse 19, we read,
When anxieties overwhelm me, you, Jehovah, comforted and soothed me.
What a beautiful reminder.
Jehovah can sooth and comfort us when attending spiritual programs so that we can focus on what he's teaching us.
Yes, spiritual programs are a provision from him, a spiritual lifeline.
So as needed, during a spiritual program, we should pray to Jehovah to help us stay focused.
Pray repeatedly as needed.
Well, in summary, what have we learned?
All of us are teachers from time to time.
But first and foremost, we are students in the classroom of the great teacher and the grand instructor.
Like Ezra, humility and appreciation should move us to prepare our hearts before every spiritual program.
We don't want to miss anything that Jehovah has for us.
We're determined to consult that law so that we can practice it and then teach it.
And in view of all the potential distractions, let's make it our aim to use our eyes, our mind and our heart to focus attention on the goodness of Jehovah's spiritual provisions.